Bash History Tricks
When engaged in a penetration test,
it’s important to keep a record of
commands that have been entered
into the shell.
Fortunately, Bash maintains a record
of commands that have been entered,
which can be displayed with
the history command.
Rather than re-typing a long command
from our history, we can make use
of the history expansion facility.
For example, each entry in our history
is preceeded by a line number.
To re-run a command, we simply type an
exclamation mark
followed by the line number,
in this case we'll re-execute
the command, clear.
which is identified by line
number 32.
Another helpful history shortcut is
the double exclamation mark,
which repeats the last command that
was executed during our terminal session:
By default, the command history is saved
to the .bash_history file
in the user home directory.
Two environment variables control the
history size:
HISTSIZE and HISTFILESIZE.
HISTSIZE controls the number of commands
stored in memory for the current session,
and HISTFILESIZE configures how many
commands are kept in the history file.
These variables can be edited according
to our needs and saved to the
Bash configuration file
.bashrc
that we will explore later.
One of the simplest ways to explore
the Bash history
is right from the command line prompt.
We can browse through the history
with some useful keyboard shortcuts
with the two most common being
the up arrow
and down arrow.
The up arrow scrolls backwards
in history…
…and the down arrow scrolls forward.
Last but not least, holding down Control
and pressing R
will invoke the reverse-i-search facility.
If we type a letter, for example, c,
we’ll get a match for the most recent
command in our history
that contains the letter “c”.
We can keep typing to narrow down
our match and when we find
the desired command, we’ll press
Enter to execute it.
Bash has a number of history features
that can save a great
deal of time and repetitive typing.